connectors/bigtable/README.md, before:

# Flink Bigtable Connector

This is a connector for Bigtable Sink for Apache Flink.

## Features

*   **Table API and DataStream API Sink:** Write data to Bigtable using the Flink Table API or Datastream API.
*   **Custom Serializers:** Use built-in or custom serializers to convert your data into Bigtable mutations.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

*   **Google Cloud Project:** A Google Cloud project with billing enabled.
*   **Bigtable Instance:** A Bigtable instance in your project.
*   **Bigtable Table:** A Bigtable table in your instance.

### Examples

See the `flink-examples-gcp-bigtable` module for example pipelines demonstrating different use cases of the Flink Bigtable Connector.

### Installation

After cloning the repository, you need to install the connector:

```
cd connectors/bigtable
mvn clean install -DskipTest
```

After the connector is installed, you should be able to import it from your **local Maven Repository**.

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.flink.connector.gcp.bigtable</groupId>
    <artifactId>flink-connector-gcp-bigtable</artifactId>
    <version>0.1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>
```

## Serializers

This connector comes with three built-in serializers to convert data types into Bigtable `RowMutationEntry` objects:

*   **`GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer`**: For AVRO `GenericRecord` objects.
*   **`RowDataToRowMutationSerializer`**: For Flink `RowData` objects.
*   **`FunctionRowMutationSerializer`**: For custom serialization logic using a provided function.

You can create your own custom serializer inheriting from `BaseRowMutationSerializer`.

See [supported types](#supported-types) for serializers `GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer` and `RowDataToRowMutationSerializer`.

### Column Family and Nested Rows Modes

`GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer` and `RowDataToRowMutationSerializer` support two modes:

*   **Column Family Mode**: All fields are written to a single specified column family. Nested fields are not supported.
*   **Nested Rows Mode**: Each top-level field represents a separate column family, with its value being another `GenericRecord` or `RowData` containing the columns for that family. Only single nested rows are supported.

These two mode are incompatible with each other and you must choose one of them.

**Column Family Mode:**

```
GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer.builder()
    .withRowKeyField("key")
    .withColumnFamily("my-column-family")
    // other settings
    .build();
```

In this mode, all fields will be written to Column Family `my-column-family`.

**Nested Rows Mode:**

```
GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer.builder()
    .withRowKeyField("key")
    .withNestedRowsMode()
    // other settings
    .build();
```

In this mode, all fields except `RowKeyField` must be Rows. The Row name represents the Column Family. For example:

*   `key` (String)
*   `family1` (contains fields like `name` (String), `age` (Integer))
*   `family2` (contains fields like `city` (String), `zipCode` (Integer)) 

Column Family `family1` would have columns `name, age` and Column Family `family2` would have columns `city, zipCode`.

You can find more information about Column Families in the [official Bigtable documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/schema-design#column-families).

### Supported Types

Both `RECORD` and `ROW` are not supported unless it's to define a Column Family in `Nested Rows Mode`. Double nested rows are not supported. For those and other unsupported types, you can use `BYTES`.

#### `GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer`

The [Avro Types](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.12.0/api/java/org/apache/avro/Schema.Type.html) supported are:

* `STRING` 
* `BYTES`  
* `INT`  
* `LONG` 
* `FLOAT`  
* `DOUBLE`  
* `BOOLEAN`

#### `RowDataToRowMutationSerializer`

The [DataTypes](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/api/java/index.html?org/apache/flink/table/api/DataTypes.html) supported are:

* `STRING`
* `CHAR`
* `VARCHAR`
* `BOOLEAN`
* `TINYINT`
* `SMALLINT`
* `INT`
* `BIGINT`
* `DOUBLE`
* `FLOAT`
* `BYTES`
* `BINARY`
* `TIMESTAMP`
* `TIMESTAMP_WITH_TIME_ZONE`
* `TIMESTAMP_WITH_LOCAL_TIME_ZONE`
* `INTERVAL(YEAR, MONTH)` 
* `INTERVAL(DAY, SECOND)`
* `TIME`
* `DATE`
* `DECIMAL` 

The maximum precision for time-based types is 6.

## Table API

This connector provides support for Flink's Table API, enabling easy and efficient data writing to Bigtable tables within your Flink Table API pipelines. 

The connector is named `bigtable`.

### Row Key

The Bigtable Flink Connector uses the primary key defined in your Flink schema as the row key for writing data to Bigtable. It must be of type `STRING` and cannot be null. Only one primary key can be used.

```
Schema schema =
        Schema.newBuilder()
                .column("my-key", DataTypes.STRING().notNull())
                .column("stringColumn", DataTypes.STRING())
                .column("intColumn", DataTypes.INT())
                .primaryKey("my-key")
                .build();
```

#### Connector Options

The following connector options are available:

| Option | Description |
|---|---|
| `project` | (Required) The Google Cloud project ID. |
| `instance` | (Required) The Bigtable instance ID. |
| `table` | (Required) The Bigtable table ID. |
| `column-family` | The column family to write to (incompatible with `use-nested-rows-mode`). |
| `use-nested-rows-mode` | Whether to use nested rows as column families (incompatible with `column-family`). |
| `sink.parallelism` | The parallelism of the sink. |

## Exactly Once

Due to Bigtable's nature, the Sink offers Exactly Once out of the box. In order to get Exactly Once, every element needs to have a timestamp which will be used in the `RowMutationEntry`.

Bigtable storage format is a tuple of `(Key, CFamily, Column, Timestamp)` and `Value`. Bigtable is idempotent through timestamp. This means that if you write the same value multiple times with the same timestamp, the database doesn't change. If you write different values for the same rowkey, Bigtable will update its state with the value that has the latest timestamp (when querying at now).

| Incoming Mutation (in order)                                  | Bigtable State (after mutation, at ts NOW) |
| :------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------------------------- |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp1, my-value                           | my-value                                   |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp2, my-value-2                         | my-value2                                  |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp1, my-value                           | my-value2                                  |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp3, my-value                           | my-value                                   |

This means that, as long as the timestamp doesn't change with retries (i.e., it is idempotent with retries) and the rest of the pipeline satisfies Exactly Once, the Bigtable Sink would work as Exactly once.

You can see an example of idempotent timestamps in the `flink-examples-gcp-bigtable` module.

Commit message:

Bigtable update doc version (#87)
* update readme

* update readme

* update readme

* update readme

* gcp to google cloud

connectors/bigtable/README.md, after:

# Flink Bigtable Connector

This is a connector for Bigtable Sink for Apache Flink.

## Features

*   **Table API and DataStream API Sink:** Write data to Bigtable using the Flink Table API or Datastream API.
*   **Custom Serializers:** Use built-in or custom serializers to convert your data into Bigtable mutations.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

*   **Google Cloud Project:** A Google Cloud project with billing enabled.
*   **Bigtable Instance:** A Bigtable instance in your project.
*   **Bigtable Table:** A Bigtable table in your instance.

### Examples

See the `flink-examples-gcp-bigtable` module for example pipelines demonstrating different use cases of the Flink Bigtable Connector.

### Installation

The connector is available on [Maven repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.flink.connector.gcp/flink-connector-gcp-bigtable):

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.flink.connector.gcp</groupId>
    <artifactId>flink-connector-gcp-bigtable</artifactId>
    <version>0.2.0</version>
</dependency>
```

You can also install the connector directly after cloning the repository and import it from your local Maven Repository:

```
cd connectors/bigtable
mvn clean install -DskipTest
```

## Serializers

This connector comes with three built-in serializers to convert data types into Bigtable `RowMutationEntry` objects:

*   **`GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer`**: For AVRO `GenericRecord` objects.
*   **`RowDataToRowMutationSerializer`**: For Flink `RowData` objects.
*   **`FunctionRowMutationSerializer`**: For custom serialization logic using a provided function.

You can create your own custom serializer inheriting from `BaseRowMutationSerializer`.

See [supported types](#supported-types) for serializers `GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer` and `RowDataToRowMutationSerializer`.

### Column Family and Nested Rows Modes

`GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer` and `RowDataToRowMutationSerializer` support two modes:

*   **Column Family Mode**: All fields are written to a single specified column family. Nested fields are not supported.
*   **Nested Rows Mode**: Each top-level field represents a separate column family, with its value being another `GenericRecord` or `RowData` containing the columns for that family. Only single nested rows are supported.

These two mode are incompatible with each other and you must choose one of them.

**Column Family Mode:**

```
GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer.builder()
    .withRowKeyField("key")
    .withColumnFamily("my-column-family")
    // other settings
    .build();
```

In this mode, all fields will be written to Column Family `my-column-family`.

**Nested Rows Mode:**

```
GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer.builder()
    .withRowKeyField("key")
    .withNestedRowsMode()
    // other settings
    .build();
```

In this mode, all fields except `RowKeyField` must be Rows. The Row name represents the Column Family. For example:

*   `key` (String)
*   `family1` (contains fields like `name` (String), `age` (Integer))
*   `family2` (contains fields like `city` (String), `zipCode` (Integer)) 

Column Family `family1` would have columns `name, age` and Column Family `family2` would have columns `city, zipCode`.

You can find more information about Column Families in the [official Bigtable documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/schema-design#column-families).

### Supported Types

Both `RECORD` and `ROW` are not supported unless it's to define a Column Family in `Nested Rows Mode`. Double nested rows are not supported. For those and other unsupported types, you can use `BYTES`.

#### `GenericRecordToRowMutationSerializer`

The [Avro Types](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.12.0/api/java/org/apache/avro/Schema.Type.html) supported are:

* `STRING` 
* `BYTES`  
* `INT`  
* `LONG` 
* `FLOAT`  
* `DOUBLE`  
* `BOOLEAN`

#### `RowDataToRowMutationSerializer`

The [DataTypes](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/api/java/index.html?org/apache/flink/table/api/DataTypes.html) supported are:

* `STRING`
* `CHAR`
* `VARCHAR`
* `BOOLEAN`
* `TINYINT`
* `SMALLINT`
* `INT`
* `BIGINT`
* `DOUBLE`
* `FLOAT`
* `BYTES`
* `BINARY`
* `TIMESTAMP`
* `TIMESTAMP_WITH_TIME_ZONE`
* `TIMESTAMP_WITH_LOCAL_TIME_ZONE`
* `INTERVAL(YEAR, MONTH)` 
* `INTERVAL(DAY, SECOND)`
* `TIME`
* `DATE`
* `DECIMAL` 

The maximum precision for time-based types is 6.

## Table API

This connector provides support for Flink's Table API, enabling easy and efficient data writing to Bigtable tables within your Flink Table API pipelines. 

The connector is named `bigtable`.

### Row Key

The Bigtable Flink Connector uses the primary key defined in your Flink schema as the row key for writing data to Bigtable. It must be of type `STRING` and cannot be null. Only one primary key can be used.

```
Schema schema =
        Schema.newBuilder()
                .column("my-key", DataTypes.STRING().notNull())
                .column("stringColumn", DataTypes.STRING())
                .column("intColumn", DataTypes.INT())
                .primaryKey("my-key")
                .build();
```

#### Connector Options

The following connector options are available:

| Option | Description |
|---|---|
| `project` | (Required) The Google Cloud project ID. |
| `instance` | (Required) The Bigtable instance ID. |
| `table` | (Required) The Bigtable table ID. |
| `column-family` | The column family to write to (incompatible with `use-nested-rows-mode`). |
| `use-nested-rows-mode` | Whether to use nested rows as column families (incompatible with `column-family`). |
| `sink.parallelism` | The parallelism of the sink. |
| `flow-control` | Specifies the use of batch flow control for writing. Defaults to `false`. |
| `app-profile-id` | Specifies the App Profile ID used when writing. |
| `credentials-file` | Specifies the Google Cloud credentials file to use. |
| `credentials-key` | Specifies the Google Cloud credentials key to use. |
| `credentials-access-token` | Specifies the Google Cloud access token to use as credentials. |

Either `column-family` or `use-nested-rows-mode` is required.

## Exactly Once

Due to Bigtable's nature, the Sink offers Exactly Once out of the box. In order to get Exactly Once, every element needs to have a timestamp which will be used in the `RowMutationEntry`.

Bigtable storage format is a tuple of `(Key, CFamily, Column, Timestamp)` and `Value`. Bigtable is idempotent through timestamp. This means that if you write the same value multiple times with the same timestamp, the database doesn't change. If you write different values for the same rowkey, Bigtable will update its state with the value that has the latest timestamp (when querying at now).

| Incoming Mutation (in order)                                  | Bigtable State (after mutation, at ts NOW) |
| :------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------------------------- |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp1, my-value                           | my-value                                   |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp2, my-value-2                         | my-value2                                  |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp1, my-value                           | my-value2                                  |
| RowKey, CF, C, timestamp3, my-value                           | my-value                                   |

This means that, as long as the timestamp doesn't change with retries (i.e., it is idempotent with retries) and the rest of the pipeline satisfies Exactly Once, the Bigtable Sink would work as Exactly once.

You can see an example of idempotent timestamps in the `flink-examples-gcp-bigtable` module.
